What is CAP Theorem?
    - The CAP Theorem explains the trade-offs in distributed systems. It states that a system can only guarantee **two of three** properties: **Consistency, Availability, and Partition Tolerance**. 
    -  This means no system can do it all, so designers must make smart choices based on their needs. 


Some conditions
    - The system designer can **select consistency & partition** tolerance but the **availability** would be compromised then.
    - The system designer can select **Partiton Tolerance and availability** but the **consistency** would be compromised.
    - The system designer can select **Availability & Consistency** but the **parition tolerance** would be compromised.
    .
    - If we consider our System is **CP(Consistency & parition tolerance.)** then due to the consistency, 
    The availability of system will be comprmised. because to make consistent data..we need to shut down system for updation. eg. banking website, booking website.
    .
    - if we consider our system is **AP(Availability & Partition Tolerance)** then due to the availability, The Consistency of system will be compromised. because to make system always available. then it's not possible to update system on the go. eg. social media app, blog website.
    .
    - If we consider our system is ***CA(Consistency & Availability)*** then due to the consistency and availability, system cannot be partition tolerance.
        - in CA, system will alwyas be in **Monolithic architecture**. because there only, we can achieve consistency and availability together.

**Imp**
Here **partitioon tolerance** is **compulsory** so choices are drop down to  **Availability and Consistency**.

Examples of some applicaiton.   
    - Blog Website -> **AP**(Availibility & Falt tolerance).
    - Multiplayer online games-> **AP**.
    - Stock Trading Platforms -> **CP**. (Consistency, falt tolerance).
    - Video Straming platform -> **AP**.
    - Ticket booking system. -> **CP**.
    - Video chat applcation -> **AP**.
    - Bank -> **CP**.


