**Load Balancer**:
    - Load balancing is the process of **efficient distribution** of **network traffic** across **all nodes** in distributed system.


Role of Load Balancer:
    - It ensures, **load distribution** is **equal over every node**.
    - **Health check** (if node is not operational, the request is passed to another node that is up & running).
    - Load balancers ensure **high scalability**, **high throughput**, **high availability**.


When to use and when to not.
    - In **monolithic** or in case of **vertically scaled** system **we don't need it**. but in **microservices** architecture (**distributed** architecture) **we need** it.


Advantages:
    - **Optimisation**: Load Balancer helps in resource utilisation and lower response time, thereby optimising the system in a high traffic environment.
    - **Better User Experience**: Load balancer helps in reducing latency and increasing availability,
    making the user's request goes smoothly & error free.
    - **Prevents downtime**: It maintains the records of server that are non operational and distribute traffic accordingly, therefore ensuring security & preventing downtime, which also helps increase profit and productivity.
    - **Flexibility**: Load balancer have the flexibility to re-route the traffic in case of any breakdown & work on server maintenance to ensure efficiency. This helps in avoiding traffic bottlenecks.
    - **Scalability**: When the traffic of web application increases suddenly, load balancer can use physical or virtual servers to deliver the responses without any disruption.
    - **Redundancy**: Load balancing also provides in-build redundancy by re-routing the traffic in case of any failure.



**Load Balancing Algorithms**
1) **Round Robin (Static)** - Sends request to servers in rotation fashion.
2) **Weighted Round robin (Static)** - It is similar to the Round Robin The only difference is, that each of the resources in a list is provided a weighted score. Depending on the weighted score the request is distributed to these servers. (some node can have better resourcs, others might not have )
.
3) **IP Hash Algorithm (Static)** - The servers have almost equal capacity, and the hash function (
input is source IP) is used for random or unbiased distribution of requests to the nodes.
4) **Source IP Hash (Static)** - Source IP Hash combines the server and client's source and destination
IP addresses to produce a hash key. The key can be used to determine the request distribution.
.
5) **Least Connection Algorithm (Dynamic)** - Requests are distributed to the application server
with the least number of active connections at the time the client request is received.
6) **Least Response Time (Dynamic)**- The request is distributed based on the server which has the
least response time.

-**Static load** balancing means, there will be **predefined criteria** and on the basis of those criteria. Requests are distributed to the nodes. eg. **round robing, ip hash** etc.

-**Dynamic load** balacning means, Traffic/Request **distribution handled during execution** based on current state of the system. eg. **least response time algo**, **least connection** etc.