**Caching**:
    - Caching is a system design technique that **stores frequently accessed data** in a **temporary storage area**, called a cache, to improve system performance.
    - The **purpose** of caching is to **improve the performance** and **efficiency** of a system by reducing the amount of time it takes to access frequently accessed data.
    

Types of caching:
    1) **Application server Cache**:
        - An Application Server Cache is a storage layer within an application server that temporarily holds frequently accessed data, so it can be quickly retrieved without needing to go back to the main database each time. 
.
    2) **Distributed Cache**:  
        - In the distributed cache, each node will have a part of the whole cache space, and then using the consistent hashing function each request can be routed to where the cache request could be found
    .
    3) **Global Cache**:
        - As the name suggests, you will have a single cache space and all the nodes use this single space. Every request will go to this single cache space.  
    .
    4) **CDN (Content Distribution/Delivery Network)**:
        - A CDN is essentially a group of servers that are strategically placed across the globe with the purpose of accelerating the delivery of web content. 




**Cache Eviction**
    - The process of **clearing data from a cache** to create space for fresh or more relevant information is known as cache eviction.

**Cache Eviction Techniques/Policies**
    1) Least Recently Used (**LRU**):
        - The Least Recently Used (LRU) is algorithm and eviction policy that removes items from a cache that haven't been accessed recently.
    .
    2) Most Recently Used (**MRU**):
        - Most recently used (MRU) is a cache eviction policy that removes the most recently used item from the cache when it's full.
    .
    3) Last Frequently Used (**LFU**):
        - The least frequently accessed entries are eliminated first under the LFU cache eviction policy.
    .
    4) First In First Out (**FIFO**):
        - First-In-First-Out (FIFO) is a cache eviction policy that removes the oldest item from the cache when it becomes full.
    .
    5) Last In First Out (**LIFO**):
        - Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) is a cache eviction technique that removes the most recently added data to make room for new data. 
    .
    .
    6) Random Replacement (**RR**):
        - Random Replacement is a cache eviction policy that removes the item randomly when the cache is full and a new item needs to be stored