**Indexing**:
    - Indexing is a fundamental concept in system design **used to optimize database queries performance**. 
    - It is a technique that creates a separate data structure called an index, which stores a **mapping between the values in a specific column** of a table and the **location of the corresponding data row**. 
    - This **allows** the database management **system to quickly and efficiently locate the data** it needs without scanning the entire table.
    - **B-trees data structure is used to store the indexing** as it is a multilevel format of tree-based indexing, which has balanced binary search trees.
    - Earlier without indexing. **search complexity was O(N)** but now with indexing **search complexity is O(Logn). with binary search**


**Uses**:
    - It **Used** in **read intensive application**, but for **write intensive application** it will take **more time** as we need to sort that column after insertion. so **we will not use indexing in write intensive application**.


**Advantages**
    1) **Faster queries**: Indexing allows for faster data retrieval by reducing the number of times the database needs to access the disk. 
    2) **Optimized data sorting**: Indexing can improve the performance of sorting operations by only sorting the relevant rows. 
    3) **Consistent data performance**: Indexing can help the database maintain a consistent speed as the amount of data increases. 
    4) **Data integrity**: Indexing can ensure data integrity by only allowing unique values to be inserted into indexed columns. 


**Disadvantages**
    1) **Extra disk space**: Indexes take up additional storage space. 
    2) **Slower data modification**: Indexing can perform poorly when using INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE statements. 
    3) **Complicated query optimizer**: Indexes can complicate the job of the query optimizer. 
    4) **Manual index creation**: Creating indexes manually requires a deep understanding of the data model, application, and data distribution. 
    5) **Index decisions**: As data changes, previous index decisions may need to be revisited. 