**Communication Protocol**:
    - A communication protocol is a **set of rules** that define **how data is exchanged between two devices in a network**.
    - These **protocols can be implemented using hardware, software, or a combination of both**.


Types of Models:
    1) **Pull/Polling**: In pull/polling, **client request and server responed** to that request. But the problem here is, if client sends 100 requests but get response to just 5 requests then other requests are failed. 
    .
    2) **Long Polling**: 
        - In Long plling, **client request and server keeps it open until it gives response to client**. But here problem is, ordering issue of requests and server will be always busy.
        - It is a technology where the client requests information from the server without expecting an immediate response or basically involves making an HTTP request to a server and then holding the connection open to allow the server to respond later. Using long polling the server allows approximately 6 parallel connections from the browser.
    . 
    3) **Push**: 
        In push, **client opens the connection with server and keeps it always active**. The server pushes new events to the client. This method reduces the server load.
    .
    4) **Server sent events**: 
        - In this model, **Client subscribes to the server "stream"** & the **server will send message**("stream of events") to the client **until the server or client closes the stream**.
        - It is one way connection. Long lived connection.
        - It is similar to push but the difference is, push allows the server to send a notification to client even when your site is not open, whereas SSE(Server Sent Events) work as long as the users is using your site. eg Crickbuzz
    .
    5) **Socket**: 
        - **When we need continous frequent connections**. for eg. chat application. Then we can use socket. A socket is an endpoint of a two-way connection link between two servers/nodes over the network.