**REST API's**
    - It is an **application programming interface** (API) that uses a REST architectural style to **make data, content, and other digital** resources **available through web URLs**.

What is required for communication to happen?
    1) Language Independent.
    2) Fast.
    3) Enable communication over the n/w.
    4) light weighted.


- In HTTP there are **five methods** that are commonly used in a REST-based Architecture i.e. **POST, GET, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE**.


**SOA(Service Oriented Architecture)**:
    - Service-oriented architecture (SOA) is a software design approach that **breaks down applications into smaller, reusable components called services**
    - SOA is a style of architecture that promotes loose coupling & granular applications to make the components of the software reusable.
    - Service-oriented architecture (SOA) is a software development model that makes services reusable and lets them communicate across different platforms and languages to form new applications


Advantages:
    1) **Selective Scaling**: for example we can scale selective API which are used frequently.
    2) **Support Different tech stacks**: as communication happens in json data. so tech stacks doesn't matter.
    3) **Loose Coupling**.
    4) **Agile**.
    5) **Reusability**: Services can be reused across multiple applications 
    6) **Ease of maintenance**: Services are independent and can be updated without affecting other services 


Disadvantages:
    1) **Higher Latency**: Due to network calls higher latency.
    2) **Complex to secure**: Ensuring security in SOA can be challenging.
    3) **Cascading failures**.
    4) **Complex Understanding**: SOA can be difficult to implement and manage .
    5) **Initial costs**: The initial costs of setting up an SOA can be very high.
    6) **Centralized database**: SOA requires a centralized database, which can lead to scalability issues 



Note:
    - **Microservices** architecture is an **evolved version of SOA** that promotes software components to be **loosely coupled**.
    - Microservices architecture is the most granulated typeof architecture design and every service is completely independent of the other.

**Difference Between SOA & Microservices**.
**SOA**:
    1) Services can share data storage.
    2) Less scalable architecture.
    3) Deployment is time-consuming.
    4) Focused on maximizes application

**Microservices**:
    1) Each microservice has separate and independent data storage.
    2) Highly scalable architecture.
    3) Deployment is easy and less time-consuming.
    4) More focused on decoupling.



